doc/markup/inline.rst, before:

.. highlight:: rest

Inline markup
=============

Sphinx uses interpreted text roles to insert semantic markup into documents.

Variable names are an exception, they should be marked simply with ``*var*``.

For all other roles, you have to write ``:rolename:`content```.

.. note::

   The default role (```content```) has no special meaning by default.  You are
   free to use it for anything you like. 


.. _xref-syntax:

Cross-referencing syntax
------------------------

Cross-references are generated by many semantic interpreted text roles.
Basically, you only need to write ``:role:`target```, and a link will be created
to the item named *target* of the type indicated by *role*.  The links's text
will be the same as *target*.

There are some additional facilities, however, that make cross-referencing roles
more versatile:

* You may supply an explicit title and reference target, like in reST direct
  hyperlinks: ``:role:`title <target>``` will refer to *target*, but the link
  text will be *title*.

* If you prefix the content with ``!``, no reference/hyperlink will be created.

* For the Python object roles, if you prefix the content with ``~``, the link
  text will only be the last component of the target.  For example,
  ``:meth:`~Queue.Queue.get``` will refer to ``Queue.Queue.get`` but only
  display ``get`` as the link text.

  In HTML output, the link's ``title`` attribute (that is e.g. shown as a
  tool-tip on mouse-hover) will always be the full target name.


Cross-referencing Python objects
--------------------------------

The following roles refer to objects in modules and are possibly hyperlinked if
a matching identifier is found:

.. role:: mod

   The name of a module; a dotted name may be used.  This should also be used for
   package names.

.. role:: func

   The name of a Python function; dotted names may be used.  The role text
   needs not include trailing parentheses to enhance readability; they will be
   added automatically by Sphinx if the :confval:`add_function_parentheses`
   config value is true (the default).

.. role:: data

   The name of a module-level variable.

.. role:: const

   The name of a "defined" constant.  This may be a C-language ``#define``
   or a Python variable that is not intended to be changed.

.. role:: class

   A class name; a dotted name may be used.

.. role:: meth

   The name of a method of an object.  The role text should include the type
   name and the method name; if it occurs within the description of a type,
   the type name can be omitted.  A dotted name may be used.

.. role:: attr

   The name of a data attribute of an object.

.. role:: exc

   The name of an exception. A dotted name may be used.

The name enclosed in this markup can include a module name and/or a class name.
For example, ``:func:`filter``` could refer to a function named ``filter`` in
the current module, or the built-in function of that name.  In contrast,
``:func:`foo.filter``` clearly refers to the ``filter`` function in the ``foo``
module.

Normally, names in these roles are searched first without any further
qualification, then with the current module name prepended, then with the
current module and class name (if any) prepended.  If you prefix the name with a
dot, this order is reversed.  For example, in the documentation of Python's
:mod:`codecs` module, ``:func:`open``` always refers to the built-in function,
while ``:func:`.open``` refers to :func:`codecs.open`.

A similar heuristic is used to determine whether the name is an attribute of
the currently documented class.


Cross-referencing C constructs
------------------------------

The following roles create cross-references to C-language constructs if they
are defined in the documentation:

.. role:: cdata

   The name of a C-language variable.

.. role:: cfunc

   The name of a C-language function. Should include trailing parentheses.

.. role:: cmacro

   The name of a "simple" C macro, as defined above.

.. role:: ctype

   The name of a C-language type.


Cross-referencing other items of interest
-----------------------------------------

The following roles do possibly create a cross-reference, but do not refer to
objects:

.. role:: envvar

   An environment variable.  Index entries are generated.  Also generates a link
   to the matching :dir:`envvar` directive, if it exists.

.. role:: token

   The name of a grammar token (used to create links between
   :dir:`productionlist` directives).

.. role:: keyword

   The name of a keyword in Python.  This creates a link to a reference label
   with that name, if it exists.

.. role:: option

   A command-line option to an executable program.  The leading hyphen(s) must
   be included.  This generates a link to a :dir:`cmdoption` directive, if it
   exists.


The following role creates a cross-reference to the term in the glossary:

.. role:: term

   Reference to a term in the glossary.  The glossary is created using the
   ``glossary`` directive containing a definition list with terms and
   definitions.  It does not have to be in the same file as the ``term`` markup,
   for example the Python docs have one global glossary in the ``glossary.rst``
   file.

   If you use a term that's not explained in a glossary, you'll get a warning
   during build.


.. _ref-role:

Cross-referencing arbitrary locations
-------------------------------------

To support cross-referencing to arbitrary locations in the documentation, the
standard reST labels used.  Of course, for this to work label names must be
unique throughout the entire documentation.  There are two ways in which you can
refer to labels:

* If you place a label directly before a section title, you can reference to it
  with ``:ref:`label-name```.  Example::

     .. _my-reference-label:

     Section to cross-reference
     --------------------------

     This is the text of the section.

     It refers to the section itself, see :ref:`my-reference-label`.

  The ``:ref:`` role would then generate a link to the section, with the link
  title being "Section to cross-reference".

* Labels that aren't placed before a section title can still be referenced to,
  but you must give the link an explicit title, using this syntax: ``:ref:`Link
  title <label-name>```.


Other semantic markup
---------------------

The following roles don't do anything special except formatting the text
in a different style:

.. role:: command

   The name of an OS-level command, such as ``rm``.

.. role:: dfn

   Mark the defining instance of a term in the text.  (No index entries are
   generated.)

.. role:: file

   The name of a file or directory.  Within the contents, you can use curly
   braces to indicate a "variable" part, for example::

      ... is installed in :file:`/usr/lib/python2.{x}/site-packages` ...

   In the built documentation, the ``x`` will be displayed differently to
   indicate that it is to be replaced by the Python minor version.

.. role:: guilabel

   Labels presented as part of an interactive user interface should be marked
   using ``guilabel``.  This includes labels from text-based interfaces such as
   those created using :mod:`curses` or other text-based libraries.  Any label
   used in the interface should be marked with this role, including button
   labels, window titles, field names, menu and menu selection names, and even
   values in selection lists.

.. role:: kbd

   Mark a sequence of keystrokes.  What form the key sequence takes may depend
   on platform- or application-specific conventions.  When there are no relevant
   conventions, the names of modifier keys should be spelled out, to improve
   accessibility for new users and non-native speakers.  For example, an
   *xemacs* key sequence may be marked like ``:kbd:`C-x C-f```, but without
   reference to a specific application or platform, the same sequence should be
   marked as ``:kbd:`Control-x Control-f```.

.. role:: mailheader

   The name of an RFC 822-style mail header.  This markup does not imply that
   the header is being used in an email message, but can be used to refer to any
   header of the same "style."  This is also used for headers defined by the
   various MIME specifications.  The header name should be entered in the same
   way it would normally be found in practice, with the camel-casing conventions
   being preferred where there is more than one common usage. For example:
   ``:mailheader:`Content-Type```.

.. role:: makevar

   The name of a :command:`make` variable.

.. role:: manpage

   A reference to a Unix manual page including the section,
   e.g. ``:manpage:`ls(1)```.

.. role:: menuselection

   Menu selections should be marked using the ``menuselection`` role.  This is
   used to mark a complete sequence of menu selections, including selecting
   submenus and choosing a specific operation, or any subsequence of such a
   sequence.  The names of individual selections should be separated by
   ``-->``.

   For example, to mark the selection "Start > Programs", use this markup::

      :menuselection:`Start --> Programs`

   When including a selection that includes some trailing indicator, such as the
   ellipsis some operating systems use to indicate that the command opens a
   dialog, the indicator should be omitted from the selection name.

.. role:: mimetype

   The name of a MIME type, or a component of a MIME type (the major or minor
   portion, taken alone).

.. role:: newsgroup

   The name of a Usenet newsgroup.

.. role:: program

   The name of an executable program.  This may differ from the file name for
   the executable for some platforms.  In particular, the ``.exe`` (or other)
   extension should be omitted for Windows programs.

.. role:: regexp

   A regular expression. Quotes should not be included.

.. role:: samp

   A piece of literal text, such as code.  Within the contents, you can use
   curly braces to indicate a "variable" part, as in ``:file:``.

   If you don't need the "variable part" indication, use the standard
   ````code```` instead.   


The following roles generate external links:

.. role:: pep

   A reference to a Python Enhancement Proposal.  This generates appropriate
   index entries. The text "PEP *number*\ " is generated; in the HTML output,
   this text is a hyperlink to an online copy of the specified PEP.

.. role:: rfc

   A reference to an Internet Request for Comments.  This generates appropriate
   index entries. The text "RFC *number*\ " is generated; in the HTML output,
   this text is a hyperlink to an online copy of the specified RFC.


Note that there are no special roles for including hyperlinks as you can use
the standard reST markup for that purpose.


Substitutions
-------------

The documentation system provides three substitutions that are defined by default.
They are set in the build configuration file.

.. describe:: |release|

   Replaced by the project release the documentation refers to.  This is meant
   to be the full version string including alpha/beta/release candidate tags,
   e.g. ``2.5.2b3``.  Set by :confval:`release`.

.. describe:: |version|

   Replaced by the project version the documentation refers to. This is meant to
   consist only of the major and minor version parts, e.g. ``2.5``, even for
   version 2.5.1.  Set by :confval:`version`.

.. describe:: |today|

   Replaced by either today's date, or the date set in the build configuration
   file.  Normally has the format ``April 14, 2007``.  Set by
   :confval:`today_fmt` and :confval:`today`.

Commit message:

Add default_role configuration value.

doc/markup/inline.rst, after:

.. highlight:: rest

Inline markup
=============

Sphinx uses interpreted text roles to insert semantic markup into documents.

Variable names are an exception, they should be marked simply with ``*var*``.

For all other roles, you have to write ``:rolename:`content```.

.. note::

   The default role (```content```) has no special meaning by default.  You are
   free to use it for anything you like. 


.. _xref-syntax:

Cross-referencing syntax
------------------------

Cross-references are generated by many semantic interpreted text roles.
Basically, you only need to write ``:role:`target```, and a link will be created
to the item named *target* of the type indicated by *role*.  The links's text
will be the same as *target*.

There are some additional facilities, however, that make cross-referencing roles
more versatile:

* You may supply an explicit title and reference target, like in reST direct
  hyperlinks: ``:role:`title <target>``` will refer to *target*, but the link
  text will be *title*.

* If you prefix the content with ``!``, no reference/hyperlink will be created.

* For the Python object roles, if you prefix the content with ``~``, the link
  text will only be the last component of the target.  For example,
  ``:meth:`~Queue.Queue.get``` will refer to ``Queue.Queue.get`` but only
  display ``get`` as the link text.

  In HTML output, the link's ``title`` attribute (that is e.g. shown as a
  tool-tip on mouse-hover) will always be the full target name.


Cross-referencing Python objects
--------------------------------

The following roles refer to objects in modules and are possibly hyperlinked if
a matching identifier is found:

.. role:: mod

   The name of a module; a dotted name may be used.  This should also be used for
   package names.

.. role:: func

   The name of a Python function; dotted names may be used.  The role text
   needs not include trailing parentheses to enhance readability; they will be
   added automatically by Sphinx if the :confval:`add_function_parentheses`
   config value is true (the default).

.. role:: data

   The name of a module-level variable.

.. role:: const

   The name of a "defined" constant.  This may be a C-language ``#define``
   or a Python variable that is not intended to be changed.

.. role:: class

   A class name; a dotted name may be used.

.. role:: meth

   The name of a method of an object.  The role text should include the type
   name and the method name; if it occurs within the description of a type,
   the type name can be omitted.  A dotted name may be used.

.. role:: attr

   The name of a data attribute of an object.

.. role:: exc

   The name of an exception. A dotted name may be used.

.. role:: obj

   The name of an object of unspecified type.  Useful e.g. as the
   :confval:`default_role`.

   .. versionadded:: 0.4

The name enclosed in this markup can include a module name and/or a class name.
For example, ``:func:`filter``` could refer to a function named ``filter`` in
the current module, or the built-in function of that name.  In contrast,
``:func:`foo.filter``` clearly refers to the ``filter`` function in the ``foo``
module.

Normally, names in these roles are searched first without any further
qualification, then with the current module name prepended, then with the
current module and class name (if any) prepended.  If you prefix the name with a
dot, this order is reversed.  For example, in the documentation of Python's
:mod:`codecs` module, ``:func:`open``` always refers to the built-in function,
while ``:func:`.open``` refers to :func:`codecs.open`.

A similar heuristic is used to determine whether the name is an attribute of
the currently documented class.


Cross-referencing C constructs
------------------------------

The following roles create cross-references to C-language constructs if they
are defined in the documentation:

.. role:: cdata

   The name of a C-language variable.

.. role:: cfunc

   The name of a C-language function. Should include trailing parentheses.

.. role:: cmacro

   The name of a "simple" C macro, as defined above.

.. role:: ctype

   The name of a C-language type.


Cross-referencing other items of interest
-----------------------------------------

The following roles do possibly create a cross-reference, but do not refer to
objects:

.. role:: envvar

   An environment variable.  Index entries are generated.  Also generates a link
   to the matching :dir:`envvar` directive, if it exists.

.. role:: token

   The name of a grammar token (used to create links between
   :dir:`productionlist` directives).

.. role:: keyword

   The name of a keyword in Python.  This creates a link to a reference label
   with that name, if it exists.

.. role:: option

   A command-line option to an executable program.  The leading hyphen(s) must
   be included.  This generates a link to a :dir:`cmdoption` directive, if it
   exists.


The following role creates a cross-reference to the term in the glossary:

.. role:: term

   Reference to a term in the glossary.  The glossary is created using the
   ``glossary`` directive containing a definition list with terms and
   definitions.  It does not have to be in the same file as the ``term`` markup,
   for example the Python docs have one global glossary in the ``glossary.rst``
   file.

   If you use a term that's not explained in a glossary, you'll get a warning
   during build.


.. _ref-role:

Cross-referencing arbitrary locations
-------------------------------------

To support cross-referencing to arbitrary locations in the documentation, the
standard reST labels used.  Of course, for this to work label names must be
unique throughout the entire documentation.  There are two ways in which you can
refer to labels:

* If you place a label directly before a section title, you can reference to it
  with ``:ref:`label-name```.  Example::

     .. _my-reference-label:

     Section to cross-reference
     --------------------------

     This is the text of the section.

     It refers to the section itself, see :ref:`my-reference-label`.

  The ``:ref:`` role would then generate a link to the section, with the link
  title being "Section to cross-reference".

* Labels that aren't placed before a section title can still be referenced to,
  but you must give the link an explicit title, using this syntax: ``:ref:`Link
  title <label-name>```.


Other semantic markup
---------------------

The following roles don't do anything special except formatting the text
in a different style:

.. role:: command

   The name of an OS-level command, such as ``rm``.

.. role:: dfn

   Mark the defining instance of a term in the text.  (No index entries are
   generated.)

.. role:: file

   The name of a file or directory.  Within the contents, you can use curly
   braces to indicate a "variable" part, for example::

      ... is installed in :file:`/usr/lib/python2.{x}/site-packages` ...

   In the built documentation, the ``x`` will be displayed differently to
   indicate that it is to be replaced by the Python minor version.

.. role:: guilabel

   Labels presented as part of an interactive user interface should be marked
   using ``guilabel``.  This includes labels from text-based interfaces such as
   those created using :mod:`curses` or other text-based libraries.  Any label
   used in the interface should be marked with this role, including button
   labels, window titles, field names, menu and menu selection names, and even
   values in selection lists.

.. role:: kbd

   Mark a sequence of keystrokes.  What form the key sequence takes may depend
   on platform- or application-specific conventions.  When there are no relevant
   conventions, the names of modifier keys should be spelled out, to improve
   accessibility for new users and non-native speakers.  For example, an
   *xemacs* key sequence may be marked like ``:kbd:`C-x C-f```, but without
   reference to a specific application or platform, the same sequence should be
   marked as ``:kbd:`Control-x Control-f```.

.. role:: mailheader

   The name of an RFC 822-style mail header.  This markup does not imply that
   the header is being used in an email message, but can be used to refer to any
   header of the same "style."  This is also used for headers defined by the
   various MIME specifications.  The header name should be entered in the same
   way it would normally be found in practice, with the camel-casing conventions
   being preferred where there is more than one common usage. For example:
   ``:mailheader:`Content-Type```.

.. role:: makevar

   The name of a :command:`make` variable.

.. role:: manpage

   A reference to a Unix manual page including the section,
   e.g. ``:manpage:`ls(1)```.

.. role:: menuselection

   Menu selections should be marked using the ``menuselection`` role.  This is
   used to mark a complete sequence of menu selections, including selecting
   submenus and choosing a specific operation, or any subsequence of such a
   sequence.  The names of individual selections should be separated by
   ``-->``.

   For example, to mark the selection "Start > Programs", use this markup::

      :menuselection:`Start --> Programs`

   When including a selection that includes some trailing indicator, such as the
   ellipsis some operating systems use to indicate that the command opens a
   dialog, the indicator should be omitted from the selection name.

.. role:: mimetype

   The name of a MIME type, or a component of a MIME type (the major or minor
   portion, taken alone).

.. role:: newsgroup

   The name of a Usenet newsgroup.

.. role:: program

   The name of an executable program.  This may differ from the file name for
   the executable for some platforms.  In particular, the ``.exe`` (or other)
   extension should be omitted for Windows programs.

.. role:: regexp

   A regular expression. Quotes should not be included.

.. role:: samp

   A piece of literal text, such as code.  Within the contents, you can use
   curly braces to indicate a "variable" part, as in ``:file:``.

   If you don't need the "variable part" indication, use the standard
   ````code```` instead.   


The following roles generate external links:

.. role:: pep

   A reference to a Python Enhancement Proposal.  This generates appropriate
   index entries. The text "PEP *number*\ " is generated; in the HTML output,
   this text is a hyperlink to an online copy of the specified PEP.

.. role:: rfc

   A reference to an Internet Request for Comments.  This generates appropriate
   index entries. The text "RFC *number*\ " is generated; in the HTML output,
   this text is a hyperlink to an online copy of the specified RFC.


Note that there are no special roles for including hyperlinks as you can use
the standard reST markup for that purpose.


Substitutions
-------------

The documentation system provides three substitutions that are defined by default.
They are set in the build configuration file.

.. describe:: |release|

   Replaced by the project release the documentation refers to.  This is meant
   to be the full version string including alpha/beta/release candidate tags,
   e.g. ``2.5.2b3``.  Set by :confval:`release`.

.. describe:: |version|

   Replaced by the project version the documentation refers to. This is meant to
   consist only of the major and minor version parts, e.g. ``2.5``, even for
   version 2.5.1.  Set by :confval:`version`.

.. describe:: |today|

   Replaced by either today's date, or the date set in the build configuration
   file.  Normally has the format ``April 14, 2007``.  Set by
   :confval:`today_fmt` and :confval:`today`.
