doc/builders.rst, before:

.. _builders:

Available builders
==================

.. module:: sphinx.builder
   :synopsis: Available built-in builder classes.

These are the built-in Sphinx builders.  More builders can be added by
:ref:`extensions <extensions>`.

The builder's "name" must be given to the **-b** command-line option of
:program:`sphinx-build` to select a builder.


.. class:: StandaloneHTMLBuilder

   This is the standard HTML builder.  Its output is a directory with HTML
   files, complete with style sheets and optionally the reST sources.  There are
   quite a few configuration values that customize the output of this builder,
   see the chapter :ref:`html-options` for details.

   Its name is ``html``.

.. class:: HTMLHelpBuilder

   This builder produces the same output as the standalone HTML builder, but
   also generates HTML Help support files that allow the Microsoft HTML Help
   Workshop to compile them into a CHM file.

   Its name is ``htmlhelp``. 

.. class:: PickleHTMLBuilder

   This builder produces a directory with pickle files containing mostly HTML
   fragments and TOC information, for use of a web application (or custom
   postprocessing tool) that doesn't use the standard HTML templates.  It also
   is the format used by the Sphinx Web application.

   See :ref:`pickle-details` for details about the output format.

   Its name is ``pickle``.  (The old name ``web`` still works as well.)

.. class:: LaTeXBuilder

   This builder produces a bunch of LaTeX files in the output directory.  You
   have to specify which documents are to be included in which LaTeX files via
   the :confval:`latex_documents` configuration value.  There are a few
   configuration values that customize the output of this builder, see the
   chapter :ref:`latex-options` for details.

   Its name is ``latex``.

.. class:: ChangesBuilder

   This builder produces an HTML overview of all :dir:`versionadded`,
   :dir:`versionchanged` and :dir:`deprecated` directives for the current
   :confval:`version`.  This is useful to generate a ChangeLog file, for
   example.

   Its name is ``changes``.

.. class:: CheckExternalLinksBuilder

   This builder scans all documents for external links, tries to open them with
   :mod:`urllib2`, and writes an overview which ones are broken and redirected
   to standard output and to :file:`output.txt` in the output directory.

   Its name is ``linkcheck``.


Built-in Sphinx extensions that offer more builders are:

* :mod:`~sphinx.ext.doctest`
* :mod:`~sphinx.ext.coverage`


.. _pickle-details:

Pickle builder details
----------------------

The builder outputs one pickle file per source file, and a few special files.
It also copies the reST source files in the directory ``_sources`` under the
output directory.

The files per source file have the extensions ``.fpickle``, and are arranged in
directories just as the source files are.  They unpickle to a dictionary with
these keys:

``body``
   The HTML "body" (that is, the HTML rendering of the source file), as rendered
   by the HTML translator.

``title``
   The title of the document, as HTML (may contain markup).

``toc``
   The table of contents for the file, rendered as an HTML ``<ul>``.

``display_toc``
   A boolean that is ``True`` if the ``toc`` contains more than one entry.

``current_page_name``
   The document name of the current file.

``parents``, ``prev`` and ``next``
   Information about related chapters in the TOC tree.  Each relation is a
   dictionary with the keys ``link`` (HREF for the relation) and ``title``
   (title of the related document, as HTML).  ``parents`` is a list of
   relations, while ``prev`` and ``next`` are a single relation.

``sourcename``
   The name of the source file under ``_sources``.

The special files are located in the root output directory.  They are:

``environment.pickle``
   The build environment.  (XXX add important environment properties)

``globalcontext.pickle``
   A pickled dict with these keys:

   ``project``, ``copyright``, ``release``, ``version``
      The same values as given in the configuration file.

   ``style``, ``use_modindex``
      :confval:`html_style` and :confval:`html_use_modindex`, respectively.

   ``last_updated``
      Date of last build.

   ``builder``
      Name of the used builder, in the case of pickles this is always
      ``'pickle'``.

   ``titles``
      A dictionary of all documents' titles, as HTML strings.

``searchindex.pickle``
   An index that can be used for searching the documentation.  It is a pickled
   list with these entries:

   * A list of indexed docnames.
   * A list of document titles, as HTML strings, in the same order as the first
     list.
   * A dict mapping word roots (processed by an English-language stemmer) to a
     list of integers, which are indices into the first list.

Commit message:

Add a preliminary text writer, mainly for producing pydoc-compatible topic help.

doc/builders.rst, after:

.. _builders:

Available builders
==================

.. module:: sphinx.builder
   :synopsis: Available built-in builder classes.

These are the built-in Sphinx builders.  More builders can be added by
:ref:`extensions <extensions>`.

The builder's "name" must be given to the **-b** command-line option of
:program:`sphinx-build` to select a builder.


.. class:: StandaloneHTMLBuilder

   This is the standard HTML builder.  Its output is a directory with HTML
   files, complete with style sheets and optionally the reST sources.  There are
   quite a few configuration values that customize the output of this builder,
   see the chapter :ref:`html-options` for details.

   Its name is ``html``.

.. class:: HTMLHelpBuilder

   This builder produces the same output as the standalone HTML builder, but
   also generates HTML Help support files that allow the Microsoft HTML Help
   Workshop to compile them into a CHM file.

   Its name is ``htmlhelp``. 

.. class:: PickleHTMLBuilder

   This builder produces a directory with pickle files containing mostly HTML
   fragments and TOC information, for use of a web application (or custom
   postprocessing tool) that doesn't use the standard HTML templates.  It also
   is the format used by the Sphinx Web application.

   See :ref:`pickle-details` for details about the output format.

   Its name is ``pickle``.  (The old name ``web`` still works as well.)

.. class:: LaTeXBuilder

   This builder produces a bunch of LaTeX files in the output directory.  You
   have to specify which documents are to be included in which LaTeX files via
   the :confval:`latex_documents` configuration value.  There are a few
   configuration values that customize the output of this builder, see the
   chapter :ref:`latex-options` for details.

   Its name is ``latex``.

.. class:: TextBuilder

   This builder produces a text file for each reST file -- this is almost the
   same as the reST source, but with much of the markup stripped for better
   readability.

   Its name is ``text``.

   .. versionadded:: 0.4
   
.. class:: ChangesBuilder

   This builder produces an HTML overview of all :dir:`versionadded`,
   :dir:`versionchanged` and :dir:`deprecated` directives for the current
   :confval:`version`.  This is useful to generate a ChangeLog file, for
   example.

   Its name is ``changes``.

.. class:: CheckExternalLinksBuilder

   This builder scans all documents for external links, tries to open them with
   :mod:`urllib2`, and writes an overview which ones are broken and redirected
   to standard output and to :file:`output.txt` in the output directory.

   Its name is ``linkcheck``.


Built-in Sphinx extensions that offer more builders are:

* :mod:`~sphinx.ext.doctest`
* :mod:`~sphinx.ext.coverage`


.. _pickle-details:

Pickle builder details
----------------------

The builder outputs one pickle file per source file, and a few special files.
It also copies the reST source files in the directory ``_sources`` under the
output directory.

The files per source file have the extensions ``.fpickle``, and are arranged in
directories just as the source files are.  They unpickle to a dictionary with
these keys:

``body``
   The HTML "body" (that is, the HTML rendering of the source file), as rendered
   by the HTML translator.

``title``
   The title of the document, as HTML (may contain markup).

``toc``
   The table of contents for the file, rendered as an HTML ``<ul>``.

``display_toc``
   A boolean that is ``True`` if the ``toc`` contains more than one entry.

``current_page_name``
   The document name of the current file.

``parents``, ``prev`` and ``next``
   Information about related chapters in the TOC tree.  Each relation is a
   dictionary with the keys ``link`` (HREF for the relation) and ``title``
   (title of the related document, as HTML).  ``parents`` is a list of
   relations, while ``prev`` and ``next`` are a single relation.

``sourcename``
   The name of the source file under ``_sources``.

The special files are located in the root output directory.  They are:

``environment.pickle``
   The build environment.  (XXX add important environment properties)

``globalcontext.pickle``
   A pickled dict with these keys:

   ``project``, ``copyright``, ``release``, ``version``
      The same values as given in the configuration file.

   ``style``, ``use_modindex``
      :confval:`html_style` and :confval:`html_use_modindex`, respectively.

   ``last_updated``
      Date of last build.

   ``builder``
      Name of the used builder, in the case of pickles this is always
      ``'pickle'``.

   ``titles``
      A dictionary of all documents' titles, as HTML strings.

``searchindex.pickle``
   An index that can be used for searching the documentation.  It is a pickled
   list with these entries:

   * A list of indexed docnames.
   * A list of document titles, as HTML strings, in the same order as the first
     list.
   * A dict mapping word roots (processed by an English-language stemmer) to a
     list of integers, which are indices into the first list.
