doc/config.rst, before:

.. highlightlang:: python

The build configuration file
============================

.. module:: conf
   :synopsis: Build configuration file.

The :term:`documentation root` must contain a file named :file:`conf.py`.  This
file (containing Python code) is called the "build configuration file" and
contains all configuration needed to customize Sphinx input and output behavior.

The configuration file if executed as Python code at build time (using
:func:`execfile`, and with the current directory set to the documentation root),
and therefore can execute arbitrarily complex code.  Sphinx then reads simple
names from the file's namespace as its configuration.

Two conventions are important to keep in mind here: Relative paths are always
used relative to the documentation root, and document names must always be given
without file name extension.

The contents of the namespace are pickled (so that Sphinx can find out when
configuration changes), so it may not contain unpickleable values -- delete them
from the namespace with ``del`` if appropriate.  Modules are removed
automatically, so you don't need to ``del`` your imports after use.

The configuration values can be separated in several groups.  If not otherwise
documented, values must be strings, and their default is the empty string.


General configuration
---------------------

.. confval:: extensions

   A list of strings that are module names of Sphinx extensions.  These can be
   extensions coming with Sphinx (named ``sphinx.addons.*``) or custom ones.

   Note that you can extend :data:`sys.path` within the conf file if your
   extensions live in another directory -- but make sure you use absolute
   paths.  If your extension path is relative to the documentation root, use
   :func:`os.path.abspath` like so::

      import sys, os

      sys.path.append(os.path.abspath('sphinxext'))

      extensions = ['extname']

   That way, you can load an extension called ``extname`` from the documentation
   root's subdirectory ``sphinxext``.

   The configuration file itself can be an extension; for that, you only need to
   provide a :func:`setup` function in it.

.. confval:: templates_path

   A list of paths that contain extra templates (or templates that overwrite
   builtin templates).

.. confval:: source_suffix

   The file name extension of source files.  Only files with this suffix will be
   read as sources.  Default is ``.rst``.

.. confval:: master_doc

   The document name of the "master" document, that is, the document that
   contains the root :dir:`toctree` directive.  Default is ``'contents'``.

.. confval:: project

   The documented project's name.

.. confval:: copyright

   A copyright statement in the style ``'2008, Author Name'``.

.. confval:: version

   The major project version, used as the replacement for ``|version|``.  For
   example, for the Python documentation, this may be something like ``2.6``.

.. confval:: release

   The full project version, used as the replacement for ``|release|`` and
   e.g. in the HTML templates.  For example, for the Python documentation, this
   may be something like ``2.6.0rc1``.

   If you don't need the separation provided between :confval:`version` and
   :confval:`release`, just set them both to the same value.

.. confval:: today
             today_fmt

   These values determine how to format the current date, used as the
   replacement for ``|today|``.

   * If you set :confval:`today` to a non-empty value, it is used.
   * Otherwise, the current time is formatted using :func:`time.strftime` and
     the format given in :confval:`today_fmt`.

   The default is no :confval:`today` and a :confval:`today_fmt` of ``'%B %d,
   %Y'``.

.. confval:: unused_docs

   A list of document names that are present, but not currently included in the
   toctree.  Use this setting to suppress the warning that is normally emitted
   in that case.

.. confval:: add_function_parentheses

   A boolean that decides whether parentheses are appended to function and
   method role text (e.g. the content of ``:func:`input```) to signify that the
   name is callable.  Default is ``True``.

.. confval:: add_module_names

   A boolean that decides whether module names are prepended to all
   :term:`description unit` titles, e.g. for :dir:`function` directives.
   Default is ``True``.

.. confval:: show_authors

   A boolean that decides whether :dir:`moduleauthor` and :dir:`sectionauthor`
   directives produce any output in the built files.

.. confval:: pygments_style

   The style name to use for Pygments highlighting of source code.  Default is
   ``'sphinx'``, which is a builtin style designed to match Sphinx' default
   style.

.. confval:: template_bridge

   A string with the fully-qualified (that is, including the module name) name
   of a callable (or simply a class) that returns an instance of
   :class:`~sphinx.application.TemplateBridge`.  This instance is then used to
   render HTML documents, and possibly the output of other builders (currently
   the changes builder).


.. _html-options:

Options for HTML output
-----------------------

These options influence HTML as well as HTML Help output, and other builders
that use Sphinx' HTMLWriter class.

.. confval:: html_style

   The style sheet to use for HTML pages.  A file of that name must exist either
   in Sphinx' :file:`static/` path, or in one of the custom paths given in
   :confval:`html_static_path`.  Default is ``'default.css'``.

.. confval:: html_static_path

   A list of paths that contain custom static files (such as style sheets or
   script files).  They are copied to the output directory after the builtin
   static files, so a file named :file:`default.css` will overwrite the builtin
   :file:`default.css`.

.. confval:: html_last_updated_fmt

   If this is not the empty string, a 'Last updated on:' timestamp is inserted
   at every page bottom, using the given :func:`strftime` format.  Default is 
   ``'%b %d, %Y'``.

.. confval:: html_use_smartypants

   If true, *SmartyPants* will be used to convert quotes and dashes to
   typographically correct entities.  Default: ``True``.

.. confval:: html_index

   Content template for the index page, filename relative to this file.  If this
   is not the empty string, the "index" document will not be created from a
   reStructuredText file but from the ``index.html`` template.  The template you
   specify in this value will be included in the ``index.html``, together with
   a list of tables.

   If you want to completely override the resulting ``index`` document, set this
   to some nonempty value and override the ``index.html`` template.

.. confval:: html_sidebars

   Custom sidebar templates, must be a dictionary that maps document names to
   template names.  Example::

      html_sidebars = {
         'using/windows': 'windowssidebar.html'
      }

   This will render the template ``windowssidebar.html`` within the sidebar of
   the given document.

.. confval:: html_additional_pages

   Additional templates that should be rendered to HTML pages, must be a
   dictionary that maps document names to template names.

   Example::
   
      html_additional_pages = {
          'download': 'customdownload.html',
      }

   This will render the template ``customdownload.html`` as the page
   ``download.html``.

.. confval:: html_use_modindex

   If true, add a module index to the HTML documents.   Default is ``True``.

.. confval:: html_copy_source

   If true, the reST sources are included in the HTML build as
   :file:`_sources/{name}`.

.. confval:: html_translator_class

   A string with the fully-qualified (that is, including the module name) name
   of a HTML Translator class, that is, a subclass of Sphinx'
   :class:`~sphinx.htmlwriter.HTMLTranslator`, that is used to translate
   document trees to HTML.  Default is ``None`` (use the builtin translator).

.. confval:: htmlhelp_basename

   Output file base name for HTML help builder.  Default is ``'pydoc'``.


.. _latex-options:

Options for LaTeX output
------------------------

These options influence LaTeX output.

.. confval:: latex_paper_size

   The output paper size (``'letter'`` or ``'a4'``).  Default is ``'letter'``.

.. confval:: latex_font_size

   The font size ('10pt', '11pt' or '12pt'). Default is ``'10pt'``.

.. confval:: latex_documents

   This value determines how to group the document tree into LaTeX source files.
   It must be a list of tuples ``(startdocname, targetname, title, author,
   documentclass)``, where the items are:

   * *startdocname*: document name that is the "root" of the LaTeX file.  All
     documents referenced by it in TOC trees will be included in the LaTeX file
     too.  (If you want only one LaTeX file, use your :confval:`master_doc`
     here.)
   * *targetname*: file name of the LaTeX file in the output directory.
   * *title*: LaTeX document title.  Can be empty to use the title of the
     *startdoc*.
   * *author*: Author for the LaTeX document.
   * *documentclass*: Must be one of ``'manual'`` or ``'howto'``.  Only "manual"
     documents will get appendices.  Also, howtos will have a simpler title
     page.

.. confval:: latex_appendices

   Documents to append as an appendix to all manuals.

.. confval:: latex_preamble

   Additional LaTeX markup for the preamble.

.. confval:: latex_use_modindex

   If true, add a module index to LaTeX documents.   Default is ``True``.

Commit message:

* Use a customizable title for the docs. * Fix up the clumsy index template handling.

doc/config.rst, after:

.. highlightlang:: python

The build configuration file
============================

.. module:: conf
   :synopsis: Build configuration file.

The :term:`documentation root` must contain a file named :file:`conf.py`.  This
file (containing Python code) is called the "build configuration file" and
contains all configuration needed to customize Sphinx input and output behavior.

The configuration file if executed as Python code at build time (using
:func:`execfile`, and with the current directory set to the documentation root),
and therefore can execute arbitrarily complex code.  Sphinx then reads simple
names from the file's namespace as its configuration.

Two conventions are important to keep in mind here: Relative paths are always
used relative to the documentation root, and document names must always be given
without file name extension.

The contents of the namespace are pickled (so that Sphinx can find out when
configuration changes), so it may not contain unpickleable values -- delete them
from the namespace with ``del`` if appropriate.  Modules are removed
automatically, so you don't need to ``del`` your imports after use.

The configuration values can be separated in several groups.  If not otherwise
documented, values must be strings, and their default is the empty string.


General configuration
---------------------

.. confval:: extensions

   A list of strings that are module names of Sphinx extensions.  These can be
   extensions coming with Sphinx (named ``sphinx.addons.*``) or custom ones.

   Note that you can extend :data:`sys.path` within the conf file if your
   extensions live in another directory -- but make sure you use absolute
   paths.  If your extension path is relative to the documentation root, use
   :func:`os.path.abspath` like so::

      import sys, os

      sys.path.append(os.path.abspath('sphinxext'))

      extensions = ['extname']

   That way, you can load an extension called ``extname`` from the documentation
   root's subdirectory ``sphinxext``.

   The configuration file itself can be an extension; for that, you only need to
   provide a :func:`setup` function in it.

.. confval:: templates_path

   A list of paths that contain extra templates (or templates that overwrite
   builtin templates).

.. confval:: source_suffix

   The file name extension of source files.  Only files with this suffix will be
   read as sources.  Default is ``.rst``.

.. confval:: master_doc

   The document name of the "master" document, that is, the document that
   contains the root :dir:`toctree` directive.  Default is ``'contents'``.

.. confval:: project

   The documented project's name.

.. confval:: copyright

   A copyright statement in the style ``'2008, Author Name'``.

.. confval:: version

   The major project version, used as the replacement for ``|version|``.  For
   example, for the Python documentation, this may be something like ``2.6``.

.. confval:: release

   The full project version, used as the replacement for ``|release|`` and
   e.g. in the HTML templates.  For example, for the Python documentation, this
   may be something like ``2.6.0rc1``.

   If you don't need the separation provided between :confval:`version` and
   :confval:`release`, just set them both to the same value.

.. confval:: today
             today_fmt

   These values determine how to format the current date, used as the
   replacement for ``|today|``.

   * If you set :confval:`today` to a non-empty value, it is used.
   * Otherwise, the current time is formatted using :func:`time.strftime` and
     the format given in :confval:`today_fmt`.

   The default is no :confval:`today` and a :confval:`today_fmt` of ``'%B %d,
   %Y'``.

.. confval:: unused_docs

   A list of document names that are present, but not currently included in the
   toctree.  Use this setting to suppress the warning that is normally emitted
   in that case.

.. confval:: add_function_parentheses

   A boolean that decides whether parentheses are appended to function and
   method role text (e.g. the content of ``:func:`input```) to signify that the
   name is callable.  Default is ``True``.

.. confval:: add_module_names

   A boolean that decides whether module names are prepended to all
   :term:`description unit` titles, e.g. for :dir:`function` directives.
   Default is ``True``.

.. confval:: show_authors

   A boolean that decides whether :dir:`moduleauthor` and :dir:`sectionauthor`
   directives produce any output in the built files.

.. confval:: pygments_style

   The style name to use for Pygments highlighting of source code.  Default is
   ``'sphinx'``, which is a builtin style designed to match Sphinx' default
   style.

.. confval:: template_bridge

   A string with the fully-qualified (that is, including the module name) name
   of a callable (or simply a class) that returns an instance of
   :class:`~sphinx.application.TemplateBridge`.  This instance is then used to
   render HTML documents, and possibly the output of other builders (currently
   the changes builder).


.. _html-options:

Options for HTML output
-----------------------

These options influence HTML as well as HTML Help output, and other builders
that use Sphinx' HTMLWriter class.

.. confval:: html_title

   The "title" for HTML documentation generated with Sphinx' own templates.
   This is appended to the ``<title>`` tag of individual pages, and used in the
   navigation bar as the "topmost" element.  It defaults to :samp:`'{<project>}
   v{<revision>} documentation'`, where the placeholders are replaced by the
   config values of the same name.

.. confval:: html_style

   The style sheet to use for HTML pages.  A file of that name must exist either
   in Sphinx' :file:`static/` path, or in one of the custom paths given in
   :confval:`html_static_path`.  Default is ``'default.css'``.

.. confval:: html_static_path

   A list of paths that contain custom static files (such as style sheets or
   script files).  They are copied to the output directory after the builtin
   static files, so a file named :file:`default.css` will overwrite the builtin
   :file:`default.css`.

.. confval:: html_last_updated_fmt

   If this is not the empty string, a 'Last updated on:' timestamp is inserted
   at every page bottom, using the given :func:`strftime` format.  Default is 
   ``'%b %d, %Y'``.

.. confval:: html_use_smartypants

   If true, *SmartyPants* will be used to convert quotes and dashes to
   typographically correct entities.  Default: ``True``.

.. confval:: html_sidebars

   Custom sidebar templates, must be a dictionary that maps document names to
   template names.  Example::

      html_sidebars = {
         'using/windows': 'windowssidebar.html'
      }

   This will render the template ``windowssidebar.html`` within the sidebar of
   the given document.

.. confval:: html_additional_pages

   Additional templates that should be rendered to HTML pages, must be a
   dictionary that maps document names to template names.

   Example::
   
      html_additional_pages = {
          'download': 'customdownload.html',
      }

   This will render the template ``customdownload.html`` as the page
   ``download.html``.

   .. note::

      Earlier versions of Sphinx had a value called :confval:`html_index` which
      was a clumsy way of controlling the content of the "index" document.  If
      you used this feature, migrate it by adding an ``'index'`` key to this
      setting, with your custom template as the value, and in your custom
      template, use ::
      
         {% extend "defindex.html" %}
         {% block tables %}
         ... old template content ...
         {% endblock %}

.. confval:: html_use_modindex

   If true, add a module index to the HTML documents.   Default is ``True``.

.. confval:: html_copy_source

   If true, the reST sources are included in the HTML build as
   :file:`_sources/{name}`.

.. confval:: html_translator_class

   A string with the fully-qualified (that is, including the module name) name
   of a HTML Translator class, that is, a subclass of Sphinx'
   :class:`~sphinx.htmlwriter.HTMLTranslator`, that is used to translate
   document trees to HTML.  Default is ``None`` (use the builtin translator).

.. confval:: htmlhelp_basename

   Output file base name for HTML help builder.  Default is ``'pydoc'``.


.. _latex-options:

Options for LaTeX output
------------------------

These options influence LaTeX output.

.. confval:: latex_paper_size

   The output paper size (``'letter'`` or ``'a4'``).  Default is ``'letter'``.

.. confval:: latex_font_size

   The font size ('10pt', '11pt' or '12pt'). Default is ``'10pt'``.

.. confval:: latex_documents

   This value determines how to group the document tree into LaTeX source files.
   It must be a list of tuples ``(startdocname, targetname, title, author,
   documentclass)``, where the items are:

   * *startdocname*: document name that is the "root" of the LaTeX file.  All
     documents referenced by it in TOC trees will be included in the LaTeX file
     too.  (If you want only one LaTeX file, use your :confval:`master_doc`
     here.)
   * *targetname*: file name of the LaTeX file in the output directory.
   * *title*: LaTeX document title.  Can be empty to use the title of the
     *startdoc*.
   * *author*: Author for the LaTeX document.
   * *documentclass*: Must be one of ``'manual'`` or ``'howto'``.  Only "manual"
     documents will get appendices.  Also, howtos will have a simpler title
     page.

.. confval:: latex_appendices

   Documents to append as an appendix to all manuals.

.. confval:: latex_preamble

   Additional LaTeX markup for the preamble.

.. confval:: latex_use_modindex

   If true, add a module index to LaTeX documents.   Default is ``True``.
