Doc-26/library/contextlib.rst, before:


:mod:`contextlib` --- Utilities for :keyword:`with`\ -statement contexts.
=========================================================================

.. module:: contextlib
   :synopsis: Utilities for with-statement contexts.


.. versionadded:: 2.5

This module provides utilities for common tasks involving the :keyword:`with`
statement.

Functions provided:


.. function:: contextmanager(func)

   This function is a decorator that can be used to define a factory function for
   :keyword:`with` statement context managers, without needing to create a class or
   separate :meth:`__enter__` and :meth:`__exit__` methods.

   A simple example (this is not recommended as a real way of generating HTML!)::

      from __future__ import with_statement
      from contextlib import contextmanager

      @contextmanager
      def tag(name):
          print "<%s>" % name
          yield
          print "</%s>" % name

      >>> with tag("h1"):
      ...    print "foo"
      ...
      <h1>
      foo
      </h1>

   The function being decorated must return a generator-iterator when called. This
   iterator must yield exactly one value, which will be bound to the targets in the
   :keyword:`with` statement's :keyword:`as` clause, if any.

   At the point where the generator yields, the block nested in the :keyword:`with`
   statement is executed.  The generator is then resumed after the block is exited.
   If an unhandled exception occurs in the block, it is reraised inside the
   generator at the point where the yield occurred.  Thus, you can use a
   :keyword:`try`...\ :keyword:`except`...\ :keyword:`finally` statement to trap
   the error (if any), or ensure that some cleanup takes place. If an exception is
   trapped merely in order to log it or to perform some action (rather than to
   suppress it entirely), the generator must reraise that exception. Otherwise the
   generator context manager will indicate to the :keyword:`with` statement that
   the exception has been handled, and execution will resume with the statement
   immediately following the :keyword:`with` statement.


.. function:: nested(mgr1[, mgr2[, ...]])

   Combine multiple context managers into a single nested context manager.

   Code like this::

      from contextlib import nested

      with nested(A, B, C) as (X, Y, Z):
          do_something()

   is equivalent to this::

      with A as X:
          with B as Y:
              with C as Z:
                  do_something()

   Note that if the :meth:`__exit__` method of one of the nested context managers
   indicates an exception should be suppressed, no exception information will be
   passed to any remaining outer context managers. Similarly, if the
   :meth:`__exit__` method of one of the nested managers raises an exception, any
   previous exception state will be lost; the new exception will be passed to the
   :meth:`__exit__` methods of any remaining outer context managers. In general,
   :meth:`__exit__` methods should avoid raising exceptions, and in particular they
   should not re-raise a passed-in exception.


.. function:: closing(thing)

   Return a context manager that closes *thing* upon completion of the block.  This
   is basically equivalent to::

      from contextlib import contextmanager

      @contextmanager
      def closing(thing):
          try:
              yield thing
          finally:
              thing.close()

   And lets you write code like this::

      from __future__ import with_statement
      from contextlib import closing
      import urllib

      with closing(urllib.urlopen('http://www.python.org')) as page:
          for line in page:
              print line

   without needing to explicitly close ``page``.  Even if an error occurs,
   ``page.close()`` will be called when the :keyword:`with` block is exited.


.. seealso::

   :pep:`0343` - The "with" statement
      The specification, background, and examples for the Python :keyword:`with`
      statement.

Commit message:

Added a couple of cross-refs between the context manager/with statement sections.

Doc-26/library/contextlib.rst, after:


:mod:`contextlib` --- Utilities for :keyword:`with`\ -statement contexts.
=========================================================================

.. module:: contextlib
   :synopsis: Utilities for with-statement contexts.


.. versionadded:: 2.5

This module provides utilities for common tasks involving the :keyword:`with`
statement. For more information see also :ref:`typecontextmanager` and
:ref:`context-managers`.

Functions provided:


.. function:: contextmanager(func)

   This function is a decorator that can be used to define a factory function for
   :keyword:`with` statement context managers, without needing to create a class or
   separate :meth:`__enter__` and :meth:`__exit__` methods.

   A simple example (this is not recommended as a real way of generating HTML!)::

      from __future__ import with_statement
      from contextlib import contextmanager

      @contextmanager
      def tag(name):
          print "<%s>" % name
          yield
          print "</%s>" % name

      >>> with tag("h1"):
      ...    print "foo"
      ...
      <h1>
      foo
      </h1>

   The function being decorated must return a generator-iterator when called. This
   iterator must yield exactly one value, which will be bound to the targets in the
   :keyword:`with` statement's :keyword:`as` clause, if any.

   At the point where the generator yields, the block nested in the :keyword:`with`
   statement is executed.  The generator is then resumed after the block is exited.
   If an unhandled exception occurs in the block, it is reraised inside the
   generator at the point where the yield occurred.  Thus, you can use a
   :keyword:`try`...\ :keyword:`except`...\ :keyword:`finally` statement to trap
   the error (if any), or ensure that some cleanup takes place. If an exception is
   trapped merely in order to log it or to perform some action (rather than to
   suppress it entirely), the generator must reraise that exception. Otherwise the
   generator context manager will indicate to the :keyword:`with` statement that
   the exception has been handled, and execution will resume with the statement
   immediately following the :keyword:`with` statement.


.. function:: nested(mgr1[, mgr2[, ...]])

   Combine multiple context managers into a single nested context manager.

   Code like this::

      from contextlib import nested

      with nested(A, B, C) as (X, Y, Z):
          do_something()

   is equivalent to this::

      with A as X:
          with B as Y:
              with C as Z:
                  do_something()

   Note that if the :meth:`__exit__` method of one of the nested context managers
   indicates an exception should be suppressed, no exception information will be
   passed to any remaining outer context managers. Similarly, if the
   :meth:`__exit__` method of one of the nested managers raises an exception, any
   previous exception state will be lost; the new exception will be passed to the
   :meth:`__exit__` methods of any remaining outer context managers. In general,
   :meth:`__exit__` methods should avoid raising exceptions, and in particular they
   should not re-raise a passed-in exception.


.. function:: closing(thing)

   Return a context manager that closes *thing* upon completion of the block.  This
   is basically equivalent to::

      from contextlib import contextmanager

      @contextmanager
      def closing(thing):
          try:
              yield thing
          finally:
              thing.close()

   And lets you write code like this::

      from __future__ import with_statement
      from contextlib import closing
      import urllib

      with closing(urllib.urlopen('http://www.python.org')) as page:
          for line in page:
              print line

   without needing to explicitly close ``page``.  Even if an error occurs,
   ``page.close()`` will be called when the :keyword:`with` block is exited.


.. seealso::

   :pep:`0343` - The "with" statement
      The specification, background, and examples for the Python :keyword:`with`
      statement.
