==========
Sphinx 5.1
==========


Release 5.1.1 (released Jul 26, 2022)
=====================================

Bugs fixed
----------

* #10701: Fix ValueError in the new ``deque`` based ``sphinx.ext.napoleon``
  iterator implementation.
* #10702: Restore compatibility with third-party builders.

Release 5.1.0 (released Jul 24, 2022)
=====================================

Dependencies
------------

* #10656: Support `Docutils 0.19`_. Patch by Adam Turner.

.. _Docutils 0.19: https://docutils.sourceforge.io/RELEASE-NOTES.html#release-0-19-2022-07-05

Deprecated
----------

* #10467: Deprecated ``sphinx.util.stemmer`` in favour of ``snowballstemmer``.
  Patch by Adam Turner.
* #9856: Deprecated ``sphinx.ext.napoleon.iterators``.

Features added
--------------

* #10444: html theme: Allow specifying multiple CSS files through the ``stylesheet``
  setting in ``theme.conf`` or by setting ``html_style`` to an iterable of strings.
* #10366: std domain: Add support for emphasising placeholders in :rst:dir:`option`
  directives through a new :confval:`option_emphasise_placeholders` configuration
  option.
* #10439: std domain: Use the repr of some variables when displaying warnings,
  making whitespace issues easier to identify.
* #10571: quickstart: Reduce content in the generated ``conf.py`` file. Patch by
  Pradyun Gedam.
* #10648: LaTeX: CSS-named-alike additional :ref:`'sphinxsetup' <latexsphinxsetup>`
  keys allow to configure four separate border-widths, four paddings, four
  corner radii, a shadow (possibly inset), colours for border, background, shadow
  for each of the code-block, topic, attention, caution, danger, error and warning
  directives.
* #10655: LaTeX: Explain non-standard encoding in LatinRules.xdy
* #10599: HTML Theme: Wrap consecutive footnotes in an ``<aside>`` element when
  using Docutils 0.18 or later, to allow for easier styling. This matches the
  behaviour introduced in Docutils 0.19. Patch by Adam Turner.
* #10518: config: Add ``include_patterns`` as the opposite of ``exclude_patterns``.
  Patch by Adam Turner.

Bugs fixed
----------

* #10594: HTML Theme: field term colons are doubled if using Docutils 0.18+
* #10596: Build failure if Docutils version is 0.18 (not 0.18.1) due
  to missing ``Node.findall()``
* #10506: LaTeX: build error if highlighting inline code role in figure caption
  (refs: #10251)
* #10634: Make -P (pdb) option work better with exceptions triggered from events
* #10550: py domain: Fix spurious whitespace in unparsing various operators (``+``,
  ``-``, ``~``, and ``**``). Patch by Adam Turner (refs: #10551).
* #10460: logging: Always show node source locations as absolute paths.
* HTML Search: HTML tags are displayed as a part of object name
* HTML Search: search snippets should not be folded
* HTML Search: Minor errors are emitted on fetching search snippets
* HTML Search: The markers for header links are shown in the search result
* #10520: HTML Theme: Fix use of sidebar classes in ``agogo.css_t``.
* #6679: HTML Theme: Fix inclusion of hidden toctrees in the agogo theme.
* #10566: HTML Theme: Fix enable_search_shortcuts does not work
* #8686: LaTeX: Text can fall out of code-block at end of page and leave artifact
  on next page
* #10633: LaTeX: user injected ``\color`` commands in topic or admonition boxes may
  cause color leaks in PDF due to upstream `framed.sty
  <https://ctan.org/pkg/framed>`_ bug
* #10638: LaTeX: framed coloured boxes in highlighted code (e.g. highlighted
  diffs using Pygments style ``'manni'``) inherit thickness of code-block frame
* #10647: LaTeX: Only one ``\label`` is generated for ``desc_signature`` node
  even if it has multiple node IDs
* #10579: i18n: UnboundLocalError is raised on translating raw directive
* #9577, #10088: py domain: Fix warning for duplicate Python references when
  using ``:any:`` and autodoc.
* #10548: HTML Search: fix minor summary issues.
