==========
Sphinx 5.2
==========


Release 5.2.3 (released Sep 30, 2022)
=====================================

* #10878: Fix base64 image embedding in ``sphinx.ext.imgmath``
* #10886: Add ``:nocontentsentry:`` flag and global domain table of contents
  entry control option. Patch by Adam Turner

Release 5.2.2 (released Sep 27, 2022)
=====================================

* #10872: Restore link targets for autodoc modules to the top of content.
  Patch by Dominic Davis-Foster.

Release 5.2.1 (released Sep 25, 2022)
=====================================

Bugs fixed
----------

* #10861: Always normalise the ``pycon3`` lexer to ``pycon``.
* Fix using ``sphinx.ext.autosummary`` with modules containing titles in the
  module-level docstring.

Release 5.2.0.post0 (released Sep 24, 2022)
===========================================

* Recreated source tarballs for Debian maintainers.

Release 5.2.0 (released Sep 24, 2022)
=====================================

Dependencies
------------

* #10356: Sphinx now uses declarative metadata with ``pyproject.toml`` to
  create packages, using PyPA's ``flit`` project as a build backend. Patch by
  Adam Turner.

Deprecated
----------

* #10843: Support for HTML 4 output. Patch by Adam Turner.

Features added
--------------

* #10738: napoleon: Add support for docstring types using 'of', like
  ``type of type``. Example: ``tuple of int``.
* #10286: C++, support requires clauses not just between the template
  parameter lists and the declaration.
* #10755: linkcheck: Check the source URL of raw directives that use the ``url``
  option.
* #10781: Allow :rst:role:`ref` role to be used with definitions and fields.
* #10717: HTML Search: Increase priority for full title and
  subtitle matches in search results
* #10718: HTML Search: Save search result score to the HTML element for debugging
* #10673: Make toctree accept 'genindex', 'modindex' and 'search' docnames
* #6316, #10804: Add domain objects to the table of contents. Patch by Adam Turner
* #6692: HTML Search: Include explicit :rst:dir:`index` directive index entries
  in the search index and search results. Patch by Adam Turner
* #10816: imgmath: Allow embedding images in HTML as base64
* #10854: HTML Search: Use browser localstorage for highlight control, stop
  storing highlight parameters in URL query strings. Patch by Adam Turner.

Bugs fixed
----------

* #10723: LaTeX: 5.1.0 has made the 'sphinxsetup' ``verbatimwithframe=false``
  become without effect.
* #10257: C++, ensure consistent non-specialization template argument
  representation.
* #10729: C++, fix parsing of certain non-type template parameter packs.
* #10715: Revert #10520: "Fix" use of sidebar classes in ``agogo.css_t``
