==========
Sphinx 7.0
==========


Release 7.0.1 (released May 12, 2023)
=====================================

Dependencies
------------

* #11411: Support `Docutils 0.20`_. Patch by Adam Turner.

.. _Docutils 0.20: https://docutils.sourceforge.io/RELEASE-NOTES.html#release-0-20-2023-05-04

Bugs fixed
----------

* #11418: Clean up remaining references to ``sphinx.setup_command``
  following the removal of support for setuptools.
  Patch by Willem Mulder.

Release 7.0.0 (released Apr 29, 2023)
=====================================

Incompatible changes
--------------------

* #11359: Remove long-deprecated aliases for ``MecabSplitter`` and
  ``DefaultSplitter`` in ``sphinx.search.ja``.
* #11360: Remove deprecated ``make_old_id`` functions in domain object
  description classes.
* #11363: Remove the Setuptools integration (``build_sphinx`` hook in
  ``setup.py``).
* #11364: Remove deprecated ``sphinx.ext.napoleon.iterators`` module.
* #11365: Remove support for the ``jsdump`` format in ``sphinx.search``.
* #11366: Make ``locale`` a required argument to
  ``sphinx.util.i18n.format_date()``.
* #11370: Remove deprecated ``sphinx.util.stemmer`` module.
* #11371: Remove deprecated ``sphinx.pycode.ast.parse()`` function.
* #11372: Remove deprecated ``sphinx.io.read_doc()`` function.
* #11373: Removed deprecated ``sphinx.util.get_matching_files()`` function.
* #11378: Remove deprecated ``sphinx.util.docutils.is_html5_writer_available()``
  function.
* #11379: Make the ``env`` argument to ``Builder`` subclasses required.
* #11380: autosummary: Always emit grouped import exceptions.
* #11381: Remove deprecated ``style`` key for HTML templates.
* #11382: Remove deprecated ``sphinx.writers.latex.LaTeXTranslator.docclasses``
  attribute.
* #11383: Remove deprecated ``sphinx.builders.html.html5_ready`` and
  ``sphinx.builders.html.HTMLTranslator`` attributes.
* #11385: Remove support for HTML 4 output.
